Welcome back the last series of lectures for this age Tim I'll crash course are going to focus on forms.
Let's start off with the forms basics.
A major function of really any web site is except user information as input that can be you typing in
a search term into Google and then hitting submit.
That can be you registering for a web site providing your e-mail and password or really any sort of
submission to the site where you're providing information and then clicking some kind of Submit button.
We used a form tax to set up a form then we can add special input tags to accept user information and
pretty much every major form element already has a corresponding input tag attribute.
We'll discuss the basic input elements and special tags for it now and then later on we'll discuss more
complex tags.
At the end what we do is we provide a submit input type and that automatically adds in a button for
form submission later on we're going to also be exploring how to create these sort of forms automatically
with flask in Python for it.
Now let's understand that HTL basics.
That way when we understand how to build them a flask we can connect that to let's get started.
All right.
Here you have a basic thought to himself while connected to my browser and there's nothing in this HMO
right now.
So let's go ahead and autofill it with the basics of each table and we'll just provide a paragraph tag
saying test saved that will refresh the page and then we can see testers showing up here.
So we're good to go.
Now let's come back here and can remove this test and what I'm going to do is add an A form tag so I'll
say for hit enter and it should automatically create a opening form for you as well as a closing form
tag.
You'll notice that this opening form Tang has several attributes such as class action and method.
We'll be discussing these attributes in more detail in the next lecture.
For right now feel free to delete them.
So you just have a basic form opening tag and a basic form closing tag inside of this form.
You can add things like headers and labels.
So for example I can say H-1 log in and then let's say H-2 please input your e-mail and password I'll
save that and when I refreshed this it says log in please input your email and password.
Now let's discuss how to actually put input tags to do this.
You start typing out input and have a autocomplete again input tags will have attributes themselves
such as type name and value.
Right now let's just focus on the very basic ones which is the type attribute this type attribute essentially
tells the browser what kind of actual input box you're going to render if it's a default text and I
save this and refresh then you'll see a little text box show up and you can type text in here.
There's other types such as password and this password input.
If I save this and refresh this is an input box yes specifically designed to set passwords and what
that means is as you begin to type you'll see that the information is hidden from view and that's because
this input understands that passwords for security purposes should be hidden from someone looking over
your shoulder.
So we have these various types that we can supply to our inputs.
Now you've probably noticed these other attributes name and value and these attributes themselves are
going to make a lot more sense when we actually submit a form before right now you can think of value
as the actual value that is passed back to whatever the next page or whatever to your server is requesting
upon submission of the form name.
Here is the identifier of this value.
Again this will make more sense when we actually submit the forms for it now we can leave them blank
and continue on.
So we have an input type of password already.
Let's create one more input type for the e-mail save this and when we refresh.
Now I see one for my email and then one for my password.
Then finally what we can do is add a submission button so I can type out input and then further type
I will say submit.
And if you just type submit like this with no name and no value save this and refresh.
You should notice a little grace submission button that's waiting to be clicked.
Right now there's no text inside of that submission button.
Since we're going to do for the value of submit you can type out some sort of text string to show up
inside of this text and so it a little button.
So I will say enter save refresh.
And now I see.
Enter here.
So I'm providing values equal to enter and now I get to see enter inside of this button for that form.
OK.
So let's see what happens when I actually provide an e-mail and a password.
So I'll say my e-mail and e-mail dot com type in whatever.
Three letters for a password enter and then right now nothing's actually happening.
And that's because we haven't really selected any sort of action for our form.
That is those attributes that we first saw when we typed out that form attribute tag what we'll be discussing
in the next lecture is how to actually accept this submission of the form and then send it either to
another page or back to your server.
The last thing I want to point out is that these specialized types such as email will also sometimes
prevent you from submitting the form.
So if we come back here and we try to submit something that is not an e-mail.
So notice this isn't an email because it doesn't have an app OPERATOR It doesn't have a dot org but
com is just a string not an e-mail.
And if I hit some random letters for password I hit enter.
Notice the submissions actually get in block now.
So some browsers will display this differently but most of them will say something like hey please include
an ad in the e-mail address so you can notice already just by specifying the type is e-mail the browser
will perform its own default checking to try and make sure that what's being provided is in fact an
actual e-mail.
OK.
That's the very basics of forms.
Remember you have a form tag and an input tag and the type in the impotent dictates what's actually
rendered in the browser and certain types will have restrictions such as not being visible for password
checking if it's an email.
And then we finally have a submit type which will allow us to supply the information.
We still haven't learned yet what actually happens when you click submit and connect it either to another
page or to a server.
Lastly I'll show you one last type of input really just for fun and that's the color input which is
fun to use.
So if you say type and put color hit save and then refresh the page you get to see this little cool
button.
And if you click on it and then you get to pick a color.
So for example I can pick green I can change that shade of green pick teal it OK and then I'll see that
color being updated.
That's just the fun little impot type we probably won't use it really that often during the course but
I just wanted to show it to you.
OK.
That's the basics of the actual foreign tags.
Coming up next one of the scuzz had actually some form and had a redirect to another page.
We'll see if there.